Monique Morrow is President and Co-Founder of the Humanized Internet, a non-profit organization focused on providing digital identity for those individuals most underserved, and most importantly the need to control our identities.  
https: www.thehumanizedinternet.org
	    
	     Monique believes in the social good for technology with embedded ethics where one can respond to cognitive bias. Monique’s focus in blockchain has been specific to education and credentialing, in addition to blockchain’s applicability in other industries for example, healthcare Internet of Things and insurance. She has been active in the Bitcoin- Blockchain and Ethereum [Smart contracting] architectural discussions including the application of security-privacy. i.e. SHA-256 vs SHA-3 mechanisms and the use of secure multi-party computation [sMPC]. It is this intersectionality between blockchain technology, security-privacy, legal jurisdiction and portfolio development that has been Monique’s blockchain focus. She holds several industry advisory positions and most recently Venture Partner Sparklabs Accelerator for Cybersecurity and Blockchain, Wash D.C.     

	     Recognized as one of the most influential technology leaders worldwide, Monique has earned honors that include Top 100 CIOs for 2016 (CIO.com), Top Women in Cloud Innovations Award 2016 (CloudNow), Social Media Presence of the Year 2016 (AI Magazine), 10 Women in Networking/Communications You Should Know, Top 10 Influential IT Women in Europe (Think Progress), 2015 Women of M2M/IoT (Connected World Magazine), and 2014 GEM-TECH Award (ITU and UN). She is a tireless advocate for women in technology and engineering, serving on multiple non-profit boards, publishing Internet of Women, Accelerating Culture Change in 2016 and facilitating the launch of the Women in Standardization Expert Group for ITU.      
https://data-economy.com/data-economy-emea-50-the-top- influencers-in-data-centres-cloud-and-data-in-2017/
	    
	    Monique is currently a member of a cross organizational MIT Solve 2018 winning team in the health area targeted for closing the global caregiver gap.
